
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="what_s_new">What&#039;s new?</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
</p>

<p>
[chatnet] Retard says, So what&#039;s new?
</p>

<p>
Glad you asked, retard. Let&#039;s give you a rundown. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;What&#039;s new?&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;what_s_new&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-149&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="new_content">New Content</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Over 100 new weapons.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Over 75 new pieces of armor and bits of clothing.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Over 50 new crafting recipes to discover.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Several new areas and upgrades to old areas.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Several new jobs.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Several new quests and journals to discover.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Brand spanking new raid areas to test the mettle of you and your corp.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Multiple newly implemented mutations including Robot, an extension to Ripper, that fuck weapon you always wanted, and new focus mutations.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Several new trophies to flex your ingame achievements.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Several new clothing items</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;New Content&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;new_content&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;150-728&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="changes_to_old_content">Changes To Old Content</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <del>A persistent XP system. (See: help reroll)</del> You only keep 25% of your total xp over rerolls, same as old Hell.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Chance to reduce armor durability on repair has been reduced significantly.</span> Repair your armor without fear.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Implants aren&#039;t damaged on death</span> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>(though damaged implants will cause increased stress)</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Focus has had a complete overhaul and utilizes a psi point system.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>A new poise system to replace the traditional guaranteed stun.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Parry &amp; dodge interaction has been fixed.</span> A failure to parry is no longer an automatic hit.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Dodging has been adjusted to be a lot less overpowered</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Buffed minimum damage for various two-handed melee weapons</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Early game weapons rebalanced to be little less shit.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Various armors rebalanced to be a lot less shit.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Buffed some weapon classes to be more viable</span></div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Several new flails</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Several new throwing weapons</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Fishing weapons have increased damage scaling</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> New bow weapons covered by Quickdraw</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> New focus weapons</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Most of the old weapons have been rebalanced.</span> </div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Increased skill and brawn scaling for blades</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Reduced scaling for some whips</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Pistols+Rifles skills merged into Firearms and no longer have scaling.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Some weapons have new flavor text for drawing, stowing, and power attacks</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Buffed burn and EMP damage.</span> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Laser damage is out.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The IP grind is out. I too enjoy standing in one spot for six hours until I can play the game.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Feinting is out.</span> Sorry, your weapons are good and actually obtainable now so suck your mum.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Vampire and Empath are out.</span> Sorry, I like it when you play the game.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Buffs to every racial mutation and a few others.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Money is much more important, most things are purchaseable, albeit significantly more expensive.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Aiming AT players removed in light of the rebalancing.</span> Aiming to doors still in and encouraged.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Completely new stress and implant systems.</span></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Headbutt revamped to be a little less homosexual to use.</span></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Changes To Old Content&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;changes_to_old_content&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;729-&quot;} -->