
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="stats">Stats</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This page covers the 6 key stats that determine your character&#039;s <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=basics:skills" class="wikilink1" title="basics:skills" data-wiki-id="basics:skills">skills</a>, and the bars that show up in your <code>st</code>atus window.
</p>

<p>
Typing <code>ss</code> will bring up the first half of your character&#039;s score sheet where your 6 key stats are displayed.
</p>
<pre class="code">      brawn [12.00 /18]        cool [10.00 /13]    reflexes [18.00 /26] 
     brains [ 8.00 / 7]      senses [18.00 /23]   endurance [ 8.00 / 5] </pre>
<ul>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> The first number in the square brackets beside each stat is your raw. This is how much your character has gained from gyms and chargen.</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Stat raws start at 8.00 and max out at 18.00 via Gym-o-Matic machines.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The second number in the square brackets is your stat total after modifiers (such as mutations, implants, and current buffs/debuffs).</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Every time you gain a <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=basics:mutations" class="wikilink1" title="basics:mutations" data-wiki-id="basics:mutations">mutation</a> slot you&#039;ll also gain 70 gym IPs (shown at the bottom of your <code>ss</code> menu) to spend at a gym and raise your stats with. Spend them wisely; they are a finite resource. There is no taking them back outside of deleting your character&#039;s clone and dying to start over.
</p>

<p>
You can use the <code>@buffs</code> command to bring up all of your stat modifiers. Refer to the tables in <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=basics:skills" class="wikilink1" title="basics:skills" data-wiki-id="basics:skills">skills</a> to see which stat affects which skill.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Stats&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;stats&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-1259&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="brawn">Brawn</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Used in many weapon skills and is most notable for being the secondary determining factor for how much damage a melee weapon does. It also affects the speed at which you can use firearms, how long you can hold an opponent in a grab, how vulnerable you are to a <code>headbutt</code>, and how much weight you can carry in your inventory. You can show off your brawn with <code>flex</code>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Brawn&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;brawn&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1260-1644&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="brains">Brains</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Used in many utility and crafting skills, and determines how vulnerable you are to an NPC&#039;s <code>feint</code> ability. A brain score any lower than 6 will bar you from interfacing with terminals and cause you to speak like an idiot.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Brains&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;brains&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1645-1884&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="cool">Cool</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
This determines how much stress you gain from incoming stress sources, how many henchmen you can hire from Gangland, and how many implants you can have in your head before suffering regular stress ticks. Cool also determines your chance to successfully throw up your corp&#039;s <code>gangsign</code> and how well you can spray paint graffiti.  A cool score any lower than 6 will also cause you to speak like an idiot.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Cool&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;cool&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1885-2302&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="reflexes">Reflexes</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
The most important skill for almost every character. This is used in most weapon skills plus dodge, and determines how fast you can swing a melee weapon. Reflex score is also sometimes used directly to avoid traps.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Reflexes&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;reflexes&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2303-2534&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="endurance">Endurance</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
This helps you shrug off negative status effects like shock, broken bones, various negative environmental effects and the downsides from stat enhancing drugs.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Endurance&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;endurance&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2535-2711&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="senses">Senses</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Used in various combat related utility skills like torture, track and dodge. Extremely popular since many people invest heavily in senses just for the extra dodge. Also lets you hear noises better and notice more things from the environment.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Senses&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;senses&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2712-2969&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit8" id="status_window">Status Window</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Typing <code>st</code> will bring up your character&#039;s status window which will probably look something like this:
</p>
<pre class="code">Health   [|||||||||||||||||||||||||||   ] [ 54/60 ]
Poise    [||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||] [ 50/50 ]
Psi      [||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||] [ 11/11 ]
Thirst   [                              ] [ 1/500 ]
Hunger   [||                            ] [ 36/500 ]
Stress   [                              ] [ 0/500 ]
You have to pee.
You&#039;re a little horny.
Your credit chip shows $152,809.
You&#039;re a little weighted down with gear.
Your fighting style is &#039;berserk&#039; (+0.4 speed, -3 tohit, -2 def).
You will reclone in freedom city.</pre>
<ul>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#22b14c; '>Your health meter</span> (obviously) displays your hitpoints. You die when it hits 0.</div>
<ul>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> You can permanently increase your total health up to 50 (60 with the fibrocartilage mutation) by using Endocrine Boosters bought from various <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=basics:implants" class="wikilink1" title="basics:implants" data-wiki-id="basics:implants">implant</a> stores.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Your poise meter</strong> falls separately from your health meter whenever you take damage and causes you to fall stunned when it hits 0.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#99d9ea; '>Your psi meter</span> drains when you use focus mutations and causes you to gain psi exhaustion debuffs the lower it gets.</div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Your total psi goes up and down with your total focus skill which causes it to fluctuate since many things temporarily debuff focus.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#00a2e8; '>Your thirst meter</span> goes up by 1 (or more in hot areas) every time you move a tile. Causes debuffs as it goes up.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#ff7f27; '>Your hunger meter</span> goes up passively over time, especially if you use a lot of psi. Causes debuffs as it goes up.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Your stress meter</span> goes up sometimes for various reasons, like if you have bad implants or don&#039;t satisfy certain mutation requirements. Causes debuffs as it goes up.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The other stuff below that is pretty self explanatory. Some status effects and debuffs will be displayed below your meters as simple text lines, like being cold or horny.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Status Window&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;status_window&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2970-&quot;} -->